# kickstarter-analysis

### Overview of Project
	    Performing an analysis on a kickstarter data to uncover the trends of kickstarted theater projects if they either succeed or fail, depending on the funding goals and their launch date.

### Analysis and Challenges
	    For the analysing of outcomes based on launch date we had to create a pivot table using the kickstarter data as this would be the most effective way to organize and simplify the data. Once the table is created we have make sure we are only looking for the months they launch, whether they were 'successful', 'failed', or 'canceled', how many was it for each category and the total amount for that month. Additionally, we have to make sure that the table only shows theater projects, in which we will just filter out all the other projects that aren't theater. Once the table is showing the information we want, we will put this information into a line graph to see difference between each other. In this case we will use a line graph with markers to actually see the difference between each month.
	
		For the analysing of outcomes based on goals we will be using the COUNTIFS() formula to get the amount for Successful, Failed, and Canceled Plays depending on their Goal amount, the total amount depending on the Goal range, and the percentage for Successful, Failed, 	and Canceled. While using the COUNTIFS(), we have to make cases so that we are only getting the information needed for that cell, therefor each cell will be similiar but with some difference. So for Nubmber Successful, Goal "Less Than 1000" would have "Kickstarter!$D:$D,">=1000"	while Goal "5000 to 9999" will have "Kickstarter!$D:$D,">=5000",...,Kickstarter!$D:$D,"<=9999" ". Once you are able to deterimine each needed cell COUNTIFS(). We will add all Successful, Failed, and Canceled together base on their Goal and with this information we will then find the percentage for each one. Once the chart is completed we will create a line graph that will show the difference between each other varying from their Goal. For this case, we will use a line graph with marks as they show the difference between one another better.
		
		While working on this assignment, some issue occurred that needed to be addressed. When working on the pivot table, setting up the needed value did not come out as wanted and they were not placed in the correct order. In order to fix this problem I had to play around with	the buttons that were around those values in order to fix it up. Another issue that occurred was creating a line graph for the Outcome based on Goals, as when I created the line graph nothing showed at first. Then I had to select all the columns in order to get a graph but the graph didn't look like the one from the reference. The issue was that I was using all the data when I only needed to use the	percentage data and the Goal, so I needed to filter the graph in order to get to look like the one in the reference.  
	
### Results
		Using the Outcomes based on launch date, we can conclude that kickstarted theater project that launched their campaign around May	had the highest total when in came to successful, 111, and failed,52. As well, the 2nd most successful and failed being a couple months a part being June with 100 successful and July tied with 50 failed. Likely showing kickstarted theater choices mid-spring to early summmer to start their campaign. What can also be found in the data for launch date is that when comparing successful and failed 	kickstarters, their is no month in which failed campaign was greater then successful campaign. The only month in which failed is close	to successful is December being (37:35), successful:failed.
		Observing the outcomes based on Goals you see a trend depending on the amount. When the goals are 4999 and less, you see the percentage greatly in favor of successful plays, 75.81% to 24.19% and 72.66% to 27.34%. As the amount starts to increase the difference between successful and failed plays become smaller to the point where failed plays is greater then successful plays. However, there was exception being "35000 to 39999" and "40000 to 44999" being in the postive, 66.67% to 33.33% for both. Even do projects with higher cost are more likely to fail, there were more projects with lower goals then higher goals.
		Even do we were able to find solution for these two outcomes, there are some draw backs to this dataset. Even do we are able to see each months amount we don't know if there were any outside factors that would have affected the success and failure of any	theater project. As well, when looking at the line graph for Goals, the graph is slightly skewed because of the small amount which makes outcomes look drastic even do outcomes have only a total of four. Multiple ways to try to solve this is by filtering out or leaving a comment just to make sure that the customer doesn't get surpised by the result. Also a Box and Whisker along side it would also be beneficial to show the " average amount for success and failure", as well seeing the outliers for each one.
